- [Instructor] For this video and the next several videos,
we'll be using GitHub, creating various repositories
and learning how to use GitHub actions.
If you do not have a GitHub account, you should,
because this really is a great place
for working on personal projects
and honing your skills with Git and GitHub.
GitHub accounts are free, so let's create one.
In your browser,
open to https://github.com.
And in the email address fill, type in an email address
that you prefer.
On the next screen
you should see a page that ask you to enter the email
and press continue.
This will prompt you for a password and then a username.
Click continue.
For the username, choose something
that will make sense to you.
I'm going to use CWM coding and then click continue.
This is up to you
whether or not you want to receive product announcements
and updates, I'm going to click no, and continue.
Next, we need to verify our account.
GitHub is going to ask me to solve a puzzle.
Click start puzzle.
And click create account.
Next, it's going to ask you to enter the code that was sent
to your email.
I'll check my email and enter my launch code.
This screen is asking for information
about the size of your team.
I'm picking just me
and selecting teacher and then continue.
Now, this next prompt gives you various check
boxes that are meant to help you figure
out the right account, whatever you choose here
on the next page, I'm still going to choose free account.
And now we're here on the screen to create a new repository.
Let's click create repository
and we're going to call this repository after the code base
that we have with 04_01 begin SpringBootProduction.
So we'll call this again
the name of the directory inside
of 04_01 SpringBootProduction.
For the rest of the options
I'm not going to click anything.
I will keep it public and then click create repository.
Now, next we want to switch back to our terminal window.
We're going to copy
from chapter 04_01_Begin SpringBootProduction.
For myself, I'm inside the exercise files.
So I'll type cp -r for recursive
Chapter_04/04 begin SpringBootProduction.
And then I'm going to choose my home directory.
This will copy the contents of this directory
and create a new directory with the same name
with all the files in it.
I'm doing this
because I want to keep my exercise files clean
at this point.
Let's change directories.
And inside this directory, if we do ls -la
we can see the files.
Let's type git init,
hit enter,
then we'll type git add dot,
add all the local files to my local repo.
Typing git status shows all
of the files now have been added and are waiting commit.
So now we'll type git commit -m for message.
and then type first commit close quote, hit enter.
Type git status again.
We see that we're on the branch master
and there's nothing to commit.
I'm going to type clear.
And because GitHub likes main branch rather than master
we're going to switch our branch name.
We'll type hit branch -M main.
Type git status again.
Now we can see that we're on the main branch.
Now we're going to make sure we're connected
to our remote GitHub repository
and we're going to do this by typing git remote
add origin https://
Here I want you to type your username.
Mine is cwm-coding@github.com/cwm-coding.
Again, your username.
SpringBootProduction.git
and hit enter.
Then we're going to push what we have
in our local repository to the remote.
We'll do this by typing git push -u origin main.
Now we're getting invalid username and password for this.
So what we're going to do is we're going to switch
over back to our browser window.
We're going to create a personal access token
and we'll do that by clicking on our icon in the top right,
going to settings, we'll scroll to the bottom,
go to developer settings,
we'll click on personal access tokens
and then generate new token.
Inside of this, I'm going to call this CWM access token.
I'll set the expiration for 90 days.
If you want, you can set it to no expiration
but as you can see, GitHub strongly recommends against that.
I'm going to select repo workflow
write packages, delete packages, and user.
Then I'll generate my token.
Now I highly recommend that you copy this token
because you will never see it again
and paste it someplace that you can have access to it.
I've copied mine.
Now let's go back to our terminal window again.
For good measure,
we're going to add the origin again.
I'm going to make sure I've typed everything correctly.
Cwm-coding@github, cwm-coding.
Both of those match I'll hit enter.
It says it already exists.
I'm going to scroll up twice
and push the origin name, asking for my password.
I'm going to right click and paste the token and hit enter.
Now, if we type git status
we see that we're on the main branch
and that our branch is up to date with origin main.
Let's go back to the GitHub repository one more time
and we'll click on the cat icon, the GitHub icon
in the top left.
We'll click on our repository.
And we can see that all of our code has been updated.
The new page will look something like this
and we will be using this repo to get acquainted
with some of the more basic GitHub actions and workflows.
So let's talk about that for a minute.
GitLab and GitHub both provide built in tool sets
for CI/CD or continuous integration
and continuous deployment.
Continuous integration at a high level is the process
of automating the build and testing
of code of every team member that commits changes
to version control.
Continuous integration or CI should encourage developers
to share their code
which will trigger a build, testing, merging
and validation of code back to the main branch.
Continuous deployment, CD, is a software release
process that uses automated testing to validate
if changes to a code base are correct
and stable for immediate autonomous deployment
to a production environment.
GitHub actions allow for automating these workflows
and you can create custom workflows as well
as those that match your team's needs.
GitHub actually makes available a large selection
of published actions that you can consume in your projects.
GitHub actions depend
on an event that occurs in your code repository.
That could be something that happens
in or to your code set.
Event types can be commits, merges, deletes, forks, pushes,
issue creation, and many more.
As you can see here,
there are many published events that you can use to
trigger a workflow.
In GitHub, the workflow is a set
of GitHub actions that you specify that will take place.
And this is where you can take advantage
of a number of professionally prewritten published actions
and workflows for your own consumption.
Some of these could just be linting your project code base
or automating J unit testing, building your code,
and of course deploying your code.
Here's the thing about GitHub and GitLab.
Both provide developer tools to automate the DevOps process
without having a dedicated DevOps engineer.
GitHub works a bit differently than GitLab, but both
of these git repository tools allow you the freedom to
get away from third party server tools like Jenkins
Travis-CI, Bamboo, and many other various tools.
Okay, let's go ahead and create an action.
This action will be to test and build our project.
And at the top of the screen, we see the actions link.
Go ahead and click on this.
The page that loads will list a number
of pre-built professional actions that we can consume
and add to our project.
Let's scroll down the page until we see the more
continuous integrations hyperlink button.
We'll click this
and we want to find the Java with Gradle action.
We'll scroll down.
We'll select set up this workflow
and you should see something
like the screen that is before us.
Now, let me talk through this real quickly.
What we see here are event listeners on push and pull
and this occurs to our main branch.
This triggers a build job that runs on Ubuntu.
It uses a pre-built action that checks out the code
and then we see some Linux permissions being applied
to the gradlew task
which is the script that will be used and then ran.
So let's accept what we see here.
Click start commit.
We'll accept the default message
for our commit and click commit new file.
Again, I want to click on actions
and this time we should see a workflow
that's in process.
Clicking on the build, we see a number of jobs taking place.
We see the JDK set up,
we see the permissions being granted
and now we see the build occurring.
This here shows us
that the process and action was successful.
If there was a failure,
GitHub would send us an email alerting us
that the workflow had failed.
Now, this is about all we're going to show
for the first video,
but here you've created your first GitHub action.